Something's obviously not quite right
about the definition of intelligence.
>> If we play this out, what's the limit
here?
>> The best use case of AI was to improve
human health. It was the moment I've
been waiting for that could achieve
something no other system could. I want
to use AI as a tool to help us
understand the nature of reality around
it.
>> Governments are going to use AI. What
would you hope that they use it for?
>> There's two things to worry about. One
is
>> that's Dennis Hassabis,
>> the CEO of Google DeepMind,
>> Nobel Prize winner.
>> He is one of the most important people
alive on what is quickly becoming the
biggest technological leap in our
lifetime. Because the biggest way that
AI is going to impact our lives isn't
something that we can see. It's not a
chatbot. It's not an image generator.
It's tools that are invisible to us in
drug design and natural disaster
detection and nuclear fusion and quantum
computing. Tools that he and his team
are building here. He is winning the
Nobel Prize for just one of those tools.
So, who he is and what he chooses to
build matters a lot for you and me. And
he's fascinating. He's a childhood chess
prodigy who at 17 turned down a
reportedly million-dollar job offer from
a gaming company to go to college
instead and then got a PhD in cognitive
neuroscience. He founded his company
DeepMind with a mission to solve
intelligence starting with beating video
games. He then sold that company to
Google specifically because they
promised to let DeepMind focus on
scientific research. But as this has
turned into the most intense
technological battle in recent history,
Dennis is now in charge of much, much
more. He's now behind basically
everything Google does in AI. He's
making decisions that affect your life
and millions of other lives every single
day. So, what is he planning to do with
all of that power? My goal is to show
you the future that Demis Hassabis wants
to build so that you can decide for
yourself what you think of it. Welcome
to Huge Conversations.
>> Thanks so much for doing this.
>> It's great to be here.
>> Really appreciate it. You already know
that Huge Conversations is a different
kind of interview. I'm not going to ask
you about financials. I'm not going to
ask you about your management style. I
all well covered elsewhere.
>> What I'm hoping to do in this
conversation is think about it more like
an explainer that we're making live
together.
>> And I have some props. This is not
actually meant to be a Jenga game.
>> We're going to play Jenga.
>> Um each block represents a project or a
model and I want to talk about them and
how they fit together. And so they were
meant to be visual aids but as we were
setting up we started playing Django
with them and it turned out to be way
more fun than anything I had planned.
Also I know that you like games.
>> Yes, I love games. So this is great
first in an interview anyway. So yeah.
>> So my hope in this conversation is to
make this explainer together and to help
people see what's happening right now in
AI really and what is the future that
you see coming. What are you hoping to
do in this conversation?
>> A lot of the reasons that I got into AI
30 plus years ago now is to um advance
science and medicine and I've always
thought of AI as potentially the
ultimate tool to do that. So, I'm hoping
we're going to talk about that today.
And really, that's been my passion for
what to apply AI to, although of course
it can be applied to many things.
>> Oh, this is going to be a lot of fun.
>> Yeah.
>> So, in this Jenga game that we have, a
lot of these are blocks that people will
have heard of, right? These are, you
know, this one
>> is Gemini,
>> right?
>> But I would argue that the ways in which
AI is meaningfully shaping people's
lives most are the things that are
invisible to them most of the time. So I
want to start by talking about the
project that you won the Nobel Prize for
>> Fold. Yeah,
>> good Jenga playing.
>> I want to tell the story of AlphaFold
with all of its drama because some
people might not have heard it, but then
I want to get really quickly to the
cutting edge of this sort of category of
science. Why did you decide to tackle
this problem out of all of the many?
>> Mhm. Well, I came across it actually uh
as an undergrad in Cambridge. So I had a
lot of biologist friends and one of them
specifically was obsessed with what's
called the protein folding problem. So
proteins are what everything in your
body relies on. They make biology
possible and living possible. And what's
important about them is their 3D
structure. So in the body they fold up
into kind of 3D structures and those
structures determine what function they
have or partially determine what
function they have. And so the protein
folding problem is really about can you
predict this 3D structure just from the
one-dimensional amino acid sequence. So
that's the kind of 50-year grand
challenge of protein folding. So I love
challenges. I love puzzles. So I
couldn't resist it from a scientific
point of view as this um probably you
know is described to me as the
equivalent of Fermat's last theorem but
for biology. So who couldn't be
interested in that? But also when I
first heard it, I I thought um the kind
of problem it was would be suitable for
AI one day. Even though we of course
this is in the late '9s, we didn't have
any kind of AI that would be possible to
work on this. But I thought one day that
would be possible. And then the final
thing was just the impact it would make
if you cracked it because it would open
up all these downstream possibilities
for research and especially in things
like drug discovery and understanding
disease. So, which I think is, you know,
the most important thing to apply AI to
is improving human health.
>> And the reason that this would be huge
for human health is that up until now,
in order to develop new medicines, we'd
had to spend hundreds of thousands of
dollars and years of human effort to
find out the structure of a single
protein by shooting X-rays at it. So, we
had figured out some protein structures,
but it was slow and expensive. So I'm
skipping over an enormous amount of hard
work here by you and your team, but I
think by the way that I'm asking the
questions, it is very obvious to people
that you solved it.
>> Yeah.
>> So there's this moment where you realize
that it is genuinely useful and you have
solved what had been called one of the
most important unsolved problems in
modern medicine.
>> Mhm.
>> And it's 2021.
>> You're in a meeting. I am so glad that
there was a camera in this meeting. It
is one of the most incredible moments I
have ever seen.
>> Can we use Alphaold to to solve it?
>> I think you're talking with your team
about setting up a system where
scientists could send in a request for a
specific protein like a website and then
get the protein folded.
>> Yes.
>> And then someone else has a very
different idea.
>> Yes.
>> Can you walk me through what happens in
that meeting? And then you your reaction
is incredible. Uh and I really want to
know what you were thinking. Yeah, sure.
Well, look, we we it's it was funny that
the cameras were there happened to be in
that in that particular meeting. It was
crazy that it was that day, you know,
they very rarely followed us, but it was
for that meeting. And um normally what
happens for these sorts of uh prediction
models is you the traditional thing is
you kind of set up a server and then
other scientists send you their protein
sequences and they say, "Oh, I'm
interested in this protein. Can you send
me back the the predictor structure?" So
you know uh and that's how it been done
in the whole field for the last 40 plus
years. Um and the reason is is because
most of the prediction algorithms are
quite slow. So maybe it would take a few
days and then you'd get back the you
know you'd email your you email back the
structure um and then you'd ask for you
know you'd ask for the next one. But
once I realized sort of in that meeting
actually that how quickly uh not only
how accurately we could fold the
proteins but how quickly you know in a
matter of seconds and then I was just
sort of doing the back of envelope
calculation like how many proteins are
there known to science known in nature
200 million and then how many computers
do we have and uh how many would we need
and then you know per and then if we
folded one every 10 seconds and I sort
of realized sort of in the middle of
that meeting I was fiddling on my phone
that it would be possible in a year and
So why go to all the effort of building
the servers and the databases and and
you know the emails uh uh um client and
all of that when we could just actually
fold everything ourselves, everything
anyone could ever request and ever want
and then put it on a database somewhere
for free for all the scientists in the
world to use. So it just suddenly hit
me.
>> We should just do that.
>> Now why don't we just do that? Well, so
that's one of the options like we uh you
know there's this
>> we should just we should that's a that's
a great idea.
>> We should just run every protein in
existence
>> and then release that. Suddenly all
these things must have been going on the
back of my mind and I suddenly realized
that that would be the obvious thing to
do and it would be actually probably
less effort than standing up the server.
So actually it would save us time.
>> And you in that meeting your reaction is
something like why don't we just do
that? That would be way better. we
should clearly do that and then you do.
All of a sudden, this crucial process
that had been so hard is suddenly fast
and easy and it's being used by
scientists all over the world. This huge
unsolved problem now solved.
>> Is it correct to say that we have now
predicted the structure of almost all
proteins known to science?
>> Yes. And we keep updating it. So every
time, you know, somebody scoops a pale
out of the ocean somewhere and then, you
know, there's loads of different types
of organisms in that bucket of water,
sea water, and then they sequence them
all. And so the sequencing technology
has obviously uh improved many orders of
magnitude since the human genome was
sequenced. So now the problem was the
structural biology, the finding these 3D
structures was taking was far lacking
far behind the genetic sequencing. So
now with these computational resources
like alpha fold 2, we can actually keep
up with oh here's a new million uh
genetic sequences from some new strange
organisms we found. Uh oh here are the
structures and so uh we have a kind of a
small team uh at the at the European
Birmatics Institute that keeps updating
every year you know all the new
sequences that have been found that
year. So, we're we're now, you know,
always at the cutting edge. Like, we
know what all of these different uh uh
uh protein structures mostly uh look
like.
>> That's so awesome.
>> It is pretty amazing. It's especially
amazing actually for the people,
researchers that work on um slightly
more obscure, you know, organisms or
animals and things like uh for example,
wheat. I found out a lot of plants have
way more uh uh genomic data than mammals
and humans, which is very strange. they
seem to have multiple copies of of of of
their genome and things and it's uh it's
it's it's it's a kind of strange and
bizarre world I think the plant world
but my plant scientist friends of mine
is like you know they they they don't
have the resources um like with you know
human genome as a lot of work's been
done on that but some of these more
obscure organisms um that still really
important for humanity you know like
crops and things like that uh now we're
able to um immediately jump to the
science around what they want to do with
the proteins. Um maybe, you know, help
them be more resilient to to climate
change, things like that. And uh and and
they can jump straight to the problem
they're actually interested in rather
than getting bogged down with trying to
crystallize the proteins that they're
interested in. Another boon is for um
researchers who work on neglected
diseases uh that affect primarily the
more developing parts of the world,
things like malaria or chagus disease or
leechmanasis. these they affect you know
hundreds of millions of people around
the world and um but there's not uh a
lot of money in that if if big farmer um
try to research that and find cures
because they're in the more poorer parts
of the world so they tend to be
neglected the research that goes into
that. So there's these amazing uh
nonprofit organizations that do the
research on that uh um but they don't
have a lot of money or resources. So um
giving them the structures of the
proteins that are involved in say malaro
virus uh is a huge boon for them too
because they can go straight to the drug
discovery phase.
>> That was one of the hardest things to
figure out as I was doing this research
because there's this moment where
scientists all around the world have
access to alpha fold. You can see like
the map lights up. You can see that
people are using it. But I wasn't easily
able to figure out what and a great
example would be to talk to you about of
a scientist using Alphafold and then
that speeding up a drug process that
results in a drug that I could now take.
Yeah.
>> What is your favorite example of a
scientist using AlphaFold for something
the audience might
>> understand or have seen.
>> So over 3 million uh scientists are now
using Alpha Fold. We think it's pretty
much every biologist in the world at
this point. Uh and one actually
scientist at a at a pharma company said
to me uh that uh you know almost every
drug developed from now on will have
probably used alpha fold in its uh in
its process which is sort of you know
mind-blowing really and amazing that
that's that that that impact it's
having. So um but it still takes time
with drug discovery. So we're still
mostly in the fundamental biology stage
of understanding the disease. What is
the protein we're targeting? Is that the
right biological mechanism? And then uh
as I understand it, some of these uh
drugs are now in kind of the the the
clinical trials phase and then uh
hopefully we'll see in a few years time
m you know whole dozens of drugs that
were partially helped by at least uh
alphafold and um in terms of my favorite
breakthrough is more that so far has
happened with the help of alpha fold is
there's this protein in called the
nuclear pore complex and it's one of the
biggest proteins in the body. It's huge
for protein and what it does very
important job. It's basically the
gateway that opens up and closes to let
nutrients come in and out of the cell
nucleus. So, it's it's basically the
gate it's like a big donut ring that
opens and closes. And um but we didn't
know until very recently what the
structure of this was cuz it's so big
and complicated. Uh it's pretty hard to
crystallize and actually see. And so uh
almost I think it was pretty much 6
months or a year after we put alpha fold
out uh some teams used it along with
experimental data to finally work out
what this beautiful shape was of this uh
this gateway protein and uh that was
amazing to me. is, you know, one of the
biggest proteins in the body. That's um
and and alpha fold was was was very
useful in helping determining that
structure.
>> And so perhaps we can design drugs or
treatments that better that that use
that somehow that that better access the
>> Yes, potentially. I think that was more
for fundamental biology understanding
but but obviously there is uh I mean we
ourselves we've spun out a new company
Isomorphic labs that uh actually uh
tries to build on AlphaFold and uses it
to indeed in this in this block here
uses it to uh uh as as one of the pieces
of the puzzle to um massively speed up
drug discovery. So on average, you know,
it takes like 10 years to uh uh to to
kind of develop a drug. It's crazy long
time, unbelievable amount of hard work,
very expensive and huge failure rates.
You know, only about 10% of drugs
actually get through all the clinical
stages. So we need to vastly improve
that if we want to improve human health,
I think. And I think the way to do that
is by using uh incilicone methods, alpha
fold 2 being uh one of those components.
Um but knowing the structure of a
protein is only one small part of the
drug discovery process. You need a lot
of chemistry like what compound should
you design to bind to it all of these
things. So we're trying to isomeorphic
um build these you can think of them as
uh adjacent systems that work with alpha
fold more advanced alpha fold alpha fold
3 alpha fold 4 you could call it and um
and then uh end to end basically create
these drugs that have you know very
minimal kind of side effects and uh and
incredibly effective at addressing uh uh
the type of disease we're we're trying
to help with and we're working on you
know I think at this point are like 18
19 different drug programs um across the
gamut of things from cardiovascular
heart disease to cancer to iminology. So
um I think eventually these these types
of technologies should be able to help
um across almost every therapeutic area.
>> In prep for this I did a background
interview with your fellow Nobel Prize
winner John Jumper. He really stressed
that it's one part of a larger problem
of drug discovery. And so that brings us
to the cutting edge today. I've taken
some of the some of the examples that I
want to talk about. Um what is the
cutting edge now?
>> Sure. So we we're we're building many
different components that can kind of go
together. So alpha fold is one of the
lynch pins. So that's the structure of
the protein. But if you think about it,
let's say you understand what the shape
of the protein is. Okay? And then now
you know which bit of the protein is the
important part that does its function.
So now if you think about drug
discovery, so say you want to block the
effect of that protein or enhance it in
some way, you know, you need which part
of the protein surface do you have to
bind to. So now you have to discover a
chemical compound that will that will
attach to the right place on the
protein, right? And and you want to know
how strong will it attach and will it
and then on top of that, even more
important is not just will it attach to
the thing you're interested in, make
sure it doesn't attach to other things
because if it does, that would be toxic.
toxicity. So you don't want it to have
these side effects or we call it side
effects with drugs. So you want to
minimize those. So but because now we
have all of these amazing um algorithmic
tools, we can sort of do a virtual
screen of like oh here's a compound one
of our AI systems is designed. It binds
really this is our prediction of how
strong it binds to the protein surface.
And then we can check that very quickly
like in a matter of hours that
particular compound how does it attach
to any of the other 20,000 proteins in
the human body. And so we can just do it
like that you know within a few a few
minutes and then um modifi keep
modifying the compound so that it has
less and less side effects ideally none
on any of the other proteins but um
increasingly strong effect on the one
that you want. So you can see I've just
outlined a self-improvement process or
self modification process and this is
extremely fast and efficient if you can
do it in silicone and then um you know
on on on computers and then at the last
stage um only at the final stage do you
check it in the wet lab. So you still
have to validate it. you can't you make
all these predictions. You do all your
search in silicon but then at the final
stage you check your final uh uh
proposed compounds in the wet lab um and
then check it really does what the
predictions say. But that you can
imagine would save you can search
thousands of times more compounds or
maybe even millions at some point more
quickly and efficiently that way and
then just at the end check that they're
correct. That's so much more efficient
than doing the search in in the wet lab,
which is what effectively is done today.
>> Oh, one of my favorites also is Alpha
Genome.
>> Yes.
>> So, I reached out to yet another Nobel
Prize winner. Good grief. Um, Dr.
Jennifer Dana who I've had on the show.
>> Fantastic.
>> And she sent a question for you. So, I'm
going to read this question from Dr. D.
>> Okay. So she says crisper, the gene
editing technology that she pioneered,
can now target nearly any DNA sequence,
but for most genetic diseases, we still
don't fully understand which changes in
the DNA are actually driving the
problem, especially in the 98% of the
genome that doesn't code for proteins.
With tools like Alpha Genome starting to
decode that 98%, how close do you think
we are to the moment where AI can
reliably point to the exact genetic
change causing a patient's disease so
that technologies like crisper can fix
it?
>> Yeah, what awesome question. So, um, you
know, I've discussed this with her
actually in the past and and it is
really exciting. I think with alpha
genome which is exactly that kind of
technology. It takes the big long
genetic sequences and then it tries to
predict you know if you have made a
mutation to this particular single
letter singles position in the genetic
sequence will that be a harmful you know
mutation that might cause disease or is
it benign and it won't do anything. And
alpha genome which we just released is
the best uh system in the world for
predicting that. So that's exactly what
you then want if it got um it's still
not probably good enough yet, but you
can imagine a future version of alpha
genomes that are accurate enough to sort
of really know like oh that particular
mutation in combination with this other
one. That's the hard part is what if
they're multigenic diseases where
there's cascades of mutations caused the
problem. Those are even harder to detect
but actually perfect for sort of AI to
try and help with. then um you could go
in with something like crisper maybe one
day and go in and fix that mutation um
and then fix the problem. So that would
be so a kind of combination of things
like alpha genome and crisper could be
incredibly powerful and hopefully one
day we'll be you know collaborating with
with with the likes of Jennifer on that.
>> Last year you said something to the
Guardian that I found really
interesting. You said that if I'd had my
way I would have left AI in the lab for
longer. Oh, sure.
>> And the quote is done more things like
AlphaFold, maybe cured cancer or
something like that. From the outside,
it looks like the story goes, you found
Deep Mind with the mission to solve
intelligence and use it to solve
everything else.
>> Yes.
>> And then you sell to Google specifically
because they will allow the freedom to
explore science in this way.
>> Yes.
>> And for a long time that's your
exclusive focus.
>> Yeah.
>> And then ChatgBT comes out. Google goes
code red and you become the head of all
Google AI, including the consumer
products that you weren't spending as
much time on before.
>> And it feels to me like watching that
from afar, it mirrors somewhat the
larger experience of AI, which is just
this incredible change. Yes.
>> Um, in the last couple years,
>> what was gained and what was lost in
that change?
>> Yeah, I think um that's exactly right.
what you describe is is sort of what how
it felt from the inside too. And um for
me uh as I mentioned earlier was that
that AI uh the the best use case of AI
was to improve uh human health and
accelerate scientific discovery. In fact
for me I I I've got I got into AI in the
first place because I was interested in
all the big questions in the world. The
nature of reality, nature of
consciousness, these kinds of things.
And um I felt we needed a tool to help
us even the best scientists to help us
make sense of the amount of data and
information out there and find insights
in that and that's happening which is
amazing and obviously alpha fold was the
our first and you know so far best
expression of that let's say uh and I
always had that on my mind and many
other and other problems like that. Um
so it would have been great I think to
and and given how important AGI is and
how transformative a technology is maybe
the most transformative one in human
history. um then uh I thought it would
be best to approach these kinds of uh
the the sort of latter stages of
building it which we're in now in we're
using the scientific method very
carefully very precisely very
thoughtfully um and rigorously with all
the best scientists kind of in in my
ideal world collaborating on um in kind
of CERN like way effort uh on making
sure each step we understood each step
each as we got to the final goal of of
building AGI
um seems to me like that would make the
most sense with a technology like this.
Um and then and of course you don't have
to wait. So that might take a lot
longer, maybe a decade, even a two
decades longer, but I think that would
make sense given the enormity of of what
we're dealing with. And and then my
other idea was but we don't have to wait
till AGI rise to get start getting the
benefits of AI. We could use uh more
specialized systems that maybe make use
of the general technologies, the general
algorithms we're developing for AGI, but
are not in themselves general
intelligences. They're narrow AIs if you
if you want to call them like alpha
fold, which does a specific purpose and
and only that purpose. And we could we
could have we could and we still are I'm
still doing this uh create you know many
types of alpha folds and isomorphics uh
while we're building AGI in this careful
scientific way and then benefit the
humanity could benefit from the from the
proceeds of that like cures for cancer
uh or maybe new energy sources or new
materials. And so I felt that that would
be, you know, maybe looking at this from
20, 30 years ago when I started out on
all of this, that would have been the
ideal way for it to play out um in my
opinion. Now, it didn't happen like that
because technology is unpredictable. And
in fact, it turns out that things like
language were a lot easier than we were
all expecting. Even those of us who were
obviously optimists about the whole
technology and eventually we'll crack
language. But it seems funny to think of
it now, but language and concepts and
abstractions, things that the current
models, foundation models like Gemini do
incredibly well. We thought that maybe
there would be one or two or three more
breakthroughs needed before we could get
there. But it turned out transformers,
which my Google colleagues invented and
some reinforcement learning as well on
top was enough to crack things like
language and and uh we were sort of
playing around with that. So were the
other leading labs. But um of course
with chatt and fair play to open AAI
they scaled it and then they put it out
there and I think even they say it was a
sort of science it was kind of a
research experiment they didn't realize
it would go so viral and I think none of
us did and we had sort of fairly
equivalent systems at the time because I
think when you're building that
technology uh you are so close to it you
um you're very aware of the things it
can't do the flaws it has and you don't
realize that actually people out there
would find use even though it was
hallucinating and doing other things
that we're obviously all still trying to
improve on now, still not completely
fixed. Um, but there's still interesting
use cases like summarizing things or,
you know, um, brainstorming, things like
that that people use, you know, everyone
uses chat bots for today. Now, the
downside of it is is that, um, we're in
this sort of ferocious commercial
pressure race that that that everyone's
sort of locked into currently. uh and
then on top of that there's geopolitical
issues like the US China race and so on.
So there's sort of multiple levels of
rate of of of of pressure to sort of
move fast. So the benefit of that of
course you get faster progress
obviously. So you know the progress is
just like at lightning speed these days.
Um so that's good for all the good use
cases. Um the second benefit is that um
everybody all of the viewers out there
everyone you're all getting to use the
most cutting edge AI technology perhaps
only 3 to 6 months behind what is
actually in the labs. So that's kind of
mind-blowing. It's also great because I
think it gives everyone a feeling for
it's democratizing AI. It's giving
everyone a feeling for what it's like uh
to interact with cutting edge AI and
what it can do and what it can't do. And
I think that's good for society to start
um getting normalizing itself to what is
going to be an enormous change with this
technology coming. So it's probably
better that we get to sample that in
incremental steps rather than it's just
a shock to the system. Here's a you know
there's no AGI and then here's AGI one
day. Probably that that that's not good.
Although I think there could have been
many ways it could have rolled out. Um,
and then the final thing that's actually
on the benefit side is that um, uh, uh,
you you can you can't really fully
understand your systems until they're
stress tested by millions of people. So
it doesn't matter how good your testing
is and you know your in-house testing
obviously millions of smart people
trying out things and then you seeing
what bubbles to the top or the feedback
you get um, is really important for
building more robust systems and um,
better systems. So I think there's
positives about uh and negatives about
how the way it's gone. Um it's not the
way I dreamed about years ago where we
would be sort of contemplating this
philosophically and and and and sort of
um carefully considering each next step.
Um we're not in that world and I'm I
mean although I'm a scientist first and
foremost, I'm also a pragmatic engineer.
So um we we you know we have to deal
with the world as we find it and make
the best of that. And we try to do that
by advancing the frontier but also
trying to be as responsible as we can
with doing that as we deploy these you
know very powerful technologies um like
Gemini and AlphaFold.
>> There's another story happening at the
same time as this and I want to get back
to your concerns and how you weight
those concerns and the cost. Um,
in order to understand that, I think we
need to tell a story about AI being very
creative, unexpectedly creative.
>> And that story begins, let me find my
Jenga block. That story begins here.
>> So, let's go back to March 10, 2016.
>> Yeah.
>> There's a very famous Go player that
sits down to play against a system that
you designed. Mhm.
>> And at this point, computers have beat
humans at all kinds of games, but Go is
really interesting because there are
more potential moves in Go than atoms in
the universe.
>> They're they go back and forth. They're
playing and then your system makes a
move that is so surprising because it is
incredibly unlikely that a human would
figure out a move like that. Move 37.
>> Yes.
>> And you see Lisa Doll sitting there.
He's just got this shock on his face.
He's got his head in his hands like
this.
>> I think people like yourself
would find that very different than the
systems that we've talked about so far.
So there's a category where you're
giving a huge amount of data and you're
asking to make new predictions. And I
understand this is much more complicated
than this oversimplification. But then
there's a category where you're not
giving data. You're giving rules
>> like with math or physics or games
>> like Go. and it has this incredible
opportunity for creativity.
>> Yeah.
>> Where were you when that moment happened
>> and what future did you see ahead?
>> Yeah, it was an incredible moment that
you're describing and it's actually
almost exactly 10 years ago now, which
is feels like a century ago actually.
But I think in many ways it was the dawn
of the modern AI uh era because until
that point there were many AI programs
that could beat world champions at
games, things like chess, but they were
done with what's called expert systems.
So they were systems where the a team of
smart programmers with a team of smart
in that case chess grandmasters came
together tried to distill the knowledge
the chess grand masters have into a set
of rules and huristics and then the
programmers would build a system kind of
a brute force system that would use a
lot of compute like on a supercomput
like IBM did with Deep Blue uh to be
Gary Kasparov and they would in sort of
encapsulate the rules they were given by
the chess experts and then the the
system would sort of dumbly
execute those those rules of heristics
uh and do a millions and millions of
searching of of moves and then uh try
and work out against those heristics
which is the best one to do. Now the
thing with that is um for me that was
not satisfactory when I saw that in the
'9s. Um I was doing my undergrad at the
time. I didn't feel like that was proper
AI because that system let's take D blue
okay it's it's it's world champion level
at at at chess but it can't do anything
else. Not only can't it do, you know,
language and robotics or any of those
kind of things, it it can't even play
strictly simpler game like tic-tac-toe,
right? So, something's obviously not
quite right about the definition of
intelligence, right? In the sense of
like no human, you could imagine a human
grandmaster um not being able to learn
how to play tic-tac-toe. It would make
no sense because it's strictly simpler.
So, so there's something sort of wrong
about um its generalization capability
and the fact that it didn't learn. It
was just given the answer, right? So
where if you could ask for something
like Deep Blue, where did the
intelligence reside of the system? Well,
it wasn't in the system. It was in the
minds of the chess grandmasters and the
and the and the programmers. They solved
the problem of chess and then
implemented the solution. The the
program just dumbly executed the
solution. Now Go, as you mentioned, is
um the sort of final frontier for games.
It's it's the most complex game humans
have ever invented. It's also the oldest
game. So it's just amazing in many ways
and it's also very beautiful. So in Asia
where they play it in China and Japan,
Korea instead of you know it takes all
of they play instead of chess basically
occupies that intellectual echelon but
it's a much more intuitive game sort of
artistic game almost. So you you play
patterns that look beautiful and they
turn out to be you know really strong
which is why the game has a little bit
of a mystical element to it like almost
encapsulate the top go players would say
to you encapsulates the mysteries of the
universe in the game. I think that's how
the ancient uh uh uh Chinese thought
about it. And so um and and also just
its raw complexity as as you mentioned
has more possible ball positions 10 to
the^ 170 than there are atoms in the
universe. So what that means is there's
no way you can brute force it in the way
that we did with chess. Um, and
furthermore, because the game's so
intuitive and so esoteric, um, there
aren't really these rules that you can
encapsulate easily for a machine to
follow. So when you talk to a go master,
unlike a chess master, they'll tell you
things like, "Oh, why did you play
there?" They'll say, "It felt right."
Okay, but as a chess player will never
say that. They would say like, "I did it
because I'm calculating this, this, and
then they'll tell you the calculation."
So that intu intuitive feeling is
obviously very hard to encapsulate in a
system. You can't really program that
directly. So it's the perfect um proving
ground I would say for these new
techniques that we were pioneering in
the early days of deep mind of deep
reinforcement learning. Can you use
build systems that learn from themselves
directly from experience? So in this in
the in the case of Alph Go um Alph Go
started by looking at all the games on
the internet that humans have played and
learning the types of moves humans would
do but then we overlaid it with a Monte
Carlo tree search that allowed it to
sort of discover new branches of the
tree of knowledge if you like in go
starting with what humans knew and then
going beyond that and that's what we
hoped was going to happen. So, so the
amazing thing about that match which was
ended up being watched by 200 million
people around the world was that um not
only did we win the match 4-1 that was
the main objective but in game two
specifically it played this famous move
37 that you talk about this creative
move that was um it was on the fifth
line of the board and early in the game
and it's it's sort of a big no no to do
that in go right like go a go if you
were being taught by a go master they
would slap your wrist playing on that
because it's just regarded as a bad move
and and and but not only was that um a
great move, it ended up winning the game
for Alph Go, like a 100 moves, 200 moves
later, it was in the right place as if
it sort of presignly put the stone
there. So, it was the critical, not only
was a surprising move, it was the
critical move for later for it to be
exactly in the right place to decide the
game. So, obviously, it's changed the
way all Go players play Go. But for me
it was um uh the moment I'd been waiting
for uh in terms of building a system
that we'd already spent six years by
then building these types of learning
systems that could achieve something no
other system could you know this sort of
Mount Everest of games AI you know the
final frontier if you like of can you
beat the go world champion um but also
not only did it win the match but it was
how it won and with these creative new
ideas like move 37 and that for me was
the signal that we were ready to turn it
to scientific problems like AlphaFold.
>> To say this back to you, the reason why
it's important that this audience that
wants to understand the future
understand what happened with move 37
and go
>> is because the implication is if
DeepMind can build a system that can do
that, it can also perhaps build a system
that can play any game. Yes. It can also
perhaps build systems that can um figure
out in real world problems what is the
best solution in quantum computing or in
nuclear fusion or in matrix
multiplication or what else do I have
chip design so many projects or etc etc
>> could you tell me about the cutting edge
here yes
>> pick one of these systems what is the
move 37 of these the surprising creative
ative elements going on.
>> I think um Alpha Zero is very
interesting to talk about which was the
evolution of Alpha Go. So after we we we
won um you know got to the pinnacle of
Go and showed that it could come up with
new ideas at least in Go move 37 and
actually many other ideas that it came
up with which has revolutionized how
people professionals play Go. Now uh we
then generalized it further to a system
called Alpha Zero which I think is going
to turn out to be a very important
system uh for today as well where with
Alph Go uh we started with all the human
games that that we could find on the
internet. Um and also there were a few
other couple of things that were
specific about Go that we were built
into the Alpha Go system like the
symmetry of the board and things like
that. So, we wanted to get rid of all of
those assumptions completely and
actually start from scratch um as if the
the the the program and the algorithm
didn't know anything about what it was
trying to do to start off with. And
that's why this is what the zero refers
to in Alpha Zero is it's sort of like
Alph Go, but now removing any knowledge
human crafted knowledge both in the data
and in the uh any of the kind of
huristics that we've given the system.
So, Alpha Zero starts like tabular
browser almost. Obviously, it's a has a
learning system. It's a it's it's got a
neural network. Um, we we set up the
parameters, but we didn't give it any
domain specific knowledge about Go or
any other game. And then what we tested
Alpha Zero on was first of all, could it
learn Go from scratch and then be
alphaged
to do that. So, uh it takes 17
evolutions of the program. So you can
imagine what happens is Alpha Zero
starts off random uh to begin with. It
it just it only has the rules of the
game. Plays randomly. Obviously it's
terrible at playing. Uh it creates its
own data set by playing a 100,000 games
against itself, right? And then it can
see what which moves won or lost. Even
though it's playing more or less
randomly to begin with, there'll be some
moves that are slightly better than
other moves. Okay. So now it takes the
100,000 it it we train a new version of
itself on uh version two now of alpha
zero with that new data that version two
is slightly better than version one. So
now it's not random anymore but it's not
great. It's not good but it's playing
like okay moves and then those okay
moves end up um being better. And so
then a version two gets trained, a
version three, a version four. And so uh
each time that new system gets played
against the old system and sees is it um
significantly better or not. And it
turns out that at least in go and chess
and things like that around 16 17
generations of that is enough to go from
random to better than world champion.
And at least in the case of chess which
I actually once watched live happen
because I was fascinated by obviously
playing chess myself is you know it
starts in the morning random then you
know by lunchtime I could still just
about compete with it myself and then by
tea time it's better than all grand
masters and then by dinner time it's
better than the world champion and
you've just seen the entire evolution of
that from scratch and also it's playing
interesting new chess that that even
chess computers like Stockfish um you
know with the more the kind of expert
and brute force ones uh haven't
discovered those types of new types of
moves. So Alpha Zero was the full
generalization of the Alph Go ideas. And
interestingly, I think we need these
types of ideas back here now with um our
foundation models, the new, you know,
Gemini and these kinds of things which
you can think of are generalized models
of everything, language, the world
around us, not just a game obviously
like Go. Um but we still need the this
ability to search and think and reason
on top of those models. And uh sometimes
we call those world models. And um I
think that still hasn't fully been
cracked yet how to do that. Bring back
bringing back some of these alpho ideas.
But now instead of just a narrow game
applying it to that but to the whole
world and maybe interestingly parts of
science uh too like material design um
and things like chip design and uh
quantum computers all these cool
projects that you know so many just when
I see all these bricks I can't believe
we're actually working on all these
things. But it's true is and this is
sort of the dream is like I get to I
love all so much of I mean I love every
branch of science and I get to um
indulge myself in all these different
areas of science because AI is such a
general tool it can really uh make a
huge difference to all these areas. So
maybe one example I give is just
designing new materials. you know, if we
want a material with a special type of
property, can we go beyond uh what is
currently known uh uh in material
science? And I think alphike processes
could be very useful there.
>> And the equivalent of a move 37 would be
like alpha tensor finding a new
algorithm that makes you know matrix
multiplication
>> faster. Exactly. Exactly. So you can
apply it in algorithmic space which is
quite exciting because then the
algorithm itself gets faster. So there's
some circular circular sort of
improvement there. And yes, alpha tensor
just making the matrix multiplication
which is the the basis of all neural
networks. It turns out everything's
matrix multiplication. uh you know if
you just make that 5% faster that's a hu
you know the tens of billions being
spent on training that's a huge
costsaving and uh and so these are good
examples of of of um ideas in and I
think we're still early you know also
like things like the design of chips on
a on a on a uh on a on a die you know
making it as efficient as possible the
routting you know it's a kind of uh NP
hard problem you know in terms of like
the the traveling salesman like what's
the shortest distance you can wire up
all of these things and alpha chip and
programs like that are really good,
better in some cases than human chip
designers at dealing with that. So I
think we're just scratching the surface
I would say of what's going to be
possible in the next few years with um
today's kind of more general systems
combined with these types of ideas from
from Alph Go and and Alpha Zero I think
are going to come back. These two
categories, the story that starts with
Alpha Fold, the story that starts with
Alph Go, these are the kinds of AI that
make me feel really optimistic.
>> I also think that being really
optimistic, and you do this a lot in
public, which I appreciate, is
>> fully thinking through the ways in which
something can go wrong and what we can
do to prevent that.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I want to insert one other in here.
Do this on purpose.
>> Okay.
>> This one.
>> Yes. And the reason why I bring up this
game is this is a real time war game.
>> Yeah.
>> And in the videos where this system is
absolutely crushing humans,
>> you can see the engineers cheering for
the victory of their system.
>> But of course, as someone who didn't
build the system, I'm thinking to
myself,
>> what if that's real? M
>> and we're speaking right now during a
time when the debate about militaries
and governments using AI is
a huge topic of conversation.
>> I want this conversation to last for 10
years. I want it to be useful for that
long. So I don't want to talk about
specific companies, specific terms of
service. I also think people are in some
way missing the forest for the trees
here because bigger picture governments
are going to use AI.
>> And so what I want to know from you as
someone building these systems is if you
could wave your magic wand,
>> what would you hope that they use it
for? Well, look, I think governments uh
and governments should be using uh um AI
and you know, we want to support all
sort of democratically elected
governments and I think um the things I
would love to see them use it for and
what we're trying to build our systems
to be good for is uh things like
improving public health, uh education. I
mean, all of these things need to be
rethought. The efficiency gains and the
amount of good we can uh uh do with it
governments could do with it for their
citizens could be incredible. And I
think some countries are doing it like
Singapore and UAE I think are leaning
into uh uh these types of use cases. I
would love to see it being used for uh
things like energy like optimizing
energy grids. Um we did that with our
data centers and save 30% of the you
know energy used for the cooling
systems. I think there's enormous
societal gain from applying AI at scale
to these types of areas. So that's what
we you know um I've always thought about
and and and and um hope that um
governments will pick up and use for and
we we you know want to support all of
that. Um, of course, you know, ge
geopolitics of the of of the world is
very complicated right now and these are
dualpurpose technologies and um, you
know, I worry about a couple of use case
things that can go wrong with AI that
you know in the bigger picture as you
say I think sometimes the is the the the
kind of details are uh get people get
bogged down in the details but actually
there's big and big picture there's two
things to worry about one is bad actors
whether that's individuals or all the up
to nation states
using uh repurposing these technologies
that we're trying to build for good like
curing diseases and advancing material
science and energy and so on um for
harmful ends, right? And whether that's
uh inadvertently or intentionally. Uh
and then the second branch of things I
worry about uh is the AI itself uh going
rogue um or going off the rails. I I I
if as they get more powerful that's not
today's systems but maybe in the next 2
3 four years uh especially as we go
towards more the agentic era which we're
entering now and by agents I mean
systems that are capable of completing
entire tasks on their own. So you can of
course we want those because they'll be
very useful like as an assistant or
something like that but also that means
they'll be increasingly capable and
autonomous and so um how do we make sure
as as one of the frontier labs and the
frontier labs all have to think about
this is the guardrails are put in place
that they and that we can ensure that
they do exactly what they've been told
to do or the goals they've been given
and they've been specified clearly
enough and there's no way of them
circumventing that or accidentally uh uh
breaching those guardrails And that's
going to get that's an incredibly hard
technical challenge if you think about
how powerful and how smart and capable
these systems eventually going to get.
So I tend to worry about th those are
that you could call them medium-term now
even though three four years is not
really medium-term but those are the
things I think people are perhaps not
paying enough attention to at the moment
and I think will um be the biggest uh
issues that we're going to have to
contend with if we're going to get
through the the AGI moment in a in a in
a way that's beneficial for for
humanity.
>> Yeah. One of the biggest questions I
came in for you with, you know, if I get
an hour with you in my life was next
time I read a headline,
>> how do I weight the concerns that we're
all going to have over the next 30
years? Yes. You know, like what are the
things that people are worrying too much
about and what are the things that they
are not worrying enough about?
>> Yeah. So I think the two things I just
mentioned are the things that maybe the
average person is not worrying enough
about. But even I think some of the
experts and the scientists in the field
I feel like those are the key things
that are more societal affecting um that
if we if we there are other things that
we need to worry about too like deep
fakes and and we're and we try to help
those are immediate term worries right
misinformation deep fakes these kinds of
things and you know we work on this
system called synth ID which is you know
a watermarking system actually an AI
watermark probably somewhere one of
these bricks yeah one of them and and
and uh we need AI to sort through them
and and and it it's it's it's uses AI to
actually digitally watermark any
generated image. So all the things all
the Google technologies VO and
everything else and Nana Banana uh they
all they all they all have this uh uh um
uh watermarking technology. So we can
detect and flag to the user or or
government or whoever that these are
fake. Um and I think actually I would
advocate all uh uh companies working on
generative uh AI uh should build in
something uh some kind of technology
like that so at least uh it can be
detected or they can detect which things
have been built with their uh
technologies and I think that's going to
be increasingly important but I think
that still pales into into you know as a
small issue compared to some of these
bigger issues around um AGI itself um uh
becoming very capable and how do we put
make sure that you know guardrails are
put in place that we understand uh what
that those types of systems are capable
of as we get towards AGI and you know I
think a lot more research a lot more
effort needs to go into that from from
everyone and actually I would love to
see international cooperation and
cooperation around amongst the you know
leading labs around these safety issues
and um and including you know with with
with places like the AI safety
institutes and and also academia
um to help kind of work out how we
navigate that next step because it's
unprecedented to create technology like
that.
>> If we play this out, what's the limit
here?
>> What are the things that you think
AI cannot do that humans can do? You've
called this the central question of your
life.
>> Yes, it is. And it's very related to um
you know some some scientific thinking
of some of my all-time heroes like Alan
Turing. you know, he described cheuring
machines which were these theoretical
constructs that actually all modern
computers are basically chewing machines
that are able to um compute anything
that's computable. Um so anything that
can be described as an algorithm uh that
this this type of machine can compute
and I think that the systems we're
building are approximate chewing
machines and potentially a lot of
neuroscientists including me think that
maybe the brain a good model for the
brain is an approximate cheuring
machine. So the question is and but
there are others like um friends of mine
like Roger Penrose uh and uh who you
know believes there might be some
quantum effect in the brain right and
I'm sure you've probably done videos
about that that and he you know we've
had some very uh good naturatured
debates about this but so far
neuroscience uh hasn't found any um
quantum effects in the brain. Um doesn't
mean they won't be found but so far
people have looked quite carefully and
they haven't we haven't found any. So it
looks like most of what's going on in
the brain is kind of classical
computation and so therefore um it's not
clear what the limit would be in terms
of eventually what uh an AI system could
do and could mimic. But um you know I
think that's an empirical question. I
think that's one of the um you know the
questions around consciousness. I mean I
don't think it's very well defined what
it is but we all intuit it what it is.
And um I think this journey we're on of
building an intelligent artifact I think
we'll have almost like a controlled
study comparison uh to the human mind
and then I think we'll see uh in this
journey like what are the differences
and what's unique about the mind and I'm
very open-minded about that. I think
there could be uh unique things and um
certainly unique connections between
humans that will never be replicated by
you know these AI systems. But I think a
lot of things that um we currently are
not in reach like long-term planning and
reasoning and maybe some forms of
creativity I think eventually AI systems
will be able to do.
>> I want to be honest about what's
happening in my mind right now and it is
that I am doing exactly the thing that
humans have done throughout history. I
am trying to find the reason why we are
special.
>> Yes,
>> it is that we have to be at the center
of the universe. Oh wait, we're not. We
have to be the ones that are emotionally
attuned. Oh, wait. Elephants have
funerals. Oh, we must be the ones that
can be creative and create art. Oh,
wait. Gemini can do that. Or like what?
Um, oh, we must be special. Do you find
yourself doing that as well? That's my
reaction as you're describing this
future of AI.
>> Yeah. No, I think I think we are special
and I think there is some there's a lot
of deep mysteries about how the universe
works and including a lot of things that
that are in our minds, but also things
out there in physics. You know, I I I I
think that's why I got I think I decided
from a very young age to do AI is
because I was obsessed when I was a kid
uh at school with with with the big
questions. And normally when you you
know, physics was my favorite subject at
school because that is the subject
you're supposed to study when you're
interested in all the big questions. And
um but the thing was I just realized uh
uh I guess as a young teenager reading
all these science books and biographies
on the best scientists. Richard Feman is
one of you know my all-time heroes. Uh
that they actually although they we
discovered a lot and we know a lot about
the world there's so much we don't know.
Like there's just incredible like we
don't know what time is. I mean this is
this is insane to me. Like we you know
we don't we can't even describe
something as that. It's just we're
swimming in it. But what is it? We you
know of course there's you know entropy
and things like that but it's nothing
it's nothing satisfactory about what it
really is and um you know we don't
understand a lot of quantum effects and
gravity properly and and consciousness
all most of the things we we care about
and and but we just sort of I feel like
most people we just distract ourselves
all day with you know TV shows and games
and things and don't worry too much
about it but I'm I've never been like
that. I' I it's just it it's sort of um
it's it's it's these deep mysteries kind
of play on my mind all the time and I
think um I'm quite open-minded about
what the answers might be eventually
about what's going on here, the nature
of reality. I think that's ultimately
what I'm after and I want to use AI as a
tool to help us understand the nature of
reality around it. And I'm quite sanguin
about whatever the answer might be. I'm
not, you know, I guess I'm a true
scientist in that sense of like I don't
actually I don't really have any
predescribed notion of what the answer
should be. I just want to know the
answer.
>> Me too.
One way to describe what you're trying
to do is effectively
this,
which is to say to create a system that
wouldn't be especially good at one thing
or another thing, but rather to create,
as you've been saying, AGI, artificial
general intelligence, that would be good
at it all.
>> Yes.
>> I know you're a fan of sci-fi. I am,
too. Um,
>> could you play out for me
>> the plot of the sci-fi movie in your
head? Yeah. that is the future where you
actually do this.
>> Yeah, I can I I think um I love sci-fi
too and probably I read too much of it
when I was a when I was a kid may
explain a few things but one of my
favorite serieses was the culture series
um by Ian Banks. Um I think it just
paints a really interesting actually
post AGI world. He didn't call it AGI
but that's what it was describing like a
thousand years in the future but I think
even 50 years some of this could happen
where we've we've got through the AGI
moment safely. It's built. It's it's
it's um helpful for society and it's
it's and and you know it's it's here and
maybe we all have it in our pockets even
and um we've used it to crack some of
these what I call root node problems in
science. Alpha fold was one of those,
right? So these are problems if you
think of the tree of all knowledge.
These are kind of root node problems
which if you cracked it, it would unlock
a whole branch of new research or new
applications. And I think there are
other things like fusion we briefly
mentioned uh or better maybe room
temperature superconductors at
atmospheric pressure that you could then
combine with optimal batteries and
things like that. I think though there
will be a solution to the energy
problem. So free pretty much free
renewable clean energy one way or
another fusion or you know better solar
uh and then that will unlock uh us to
really travel the stars because the main
cost of you know Elon does amazing work
with SpaceX and those things but the
main cost is still the rocket fuel right
the energy cost so if that's sort of
zero somehow um because we can just make
infinite rocket fuel out of seawater
because we have we've cracked fusion so
we can have you know catalyst plants and
desalination everywhere
um then you know that unlocks the really
unlocks space and then we'll um be able
to get a lot more resources because we
can mine asteroids. All of these things
the purview of science fiction become I
think very plausible in the next 50
years. Dyson spheres around the sun. Uh
Mercury's sort of conveniently in the
right place actually made with the right
material which is kind of amazing if you
think about what's going on in the
universe. And um and and then that
should hopefully lead to you know
maximum human flourishing and we help um
cure all these terrible diseases so we
live much longer healthier lives and
traveling to the stars bringing
consciousness to the rest of the galaxy.
That would be I think an amazing outcome
and I think could happen within the next
50 years.
>> I believe you say these things and I
like when you're saying them I believe
you.
>> That's the that's what I'm trying to do
at least.
>> Yeah. So this is my last question. Mhm.
>> If I were a fly on the wall at my own
funeral
>> after they said she loved her husband
and her family and her friends,
>> I would hope that they would say that
she spent her life trying to help people
see optimistic futures so that they can
be part of making them happen that they
can make them happen more quickly or
better for more people or whatever it is
that people decide to do with the vision
that they see. And so my last question
for you is what do you hope that they
say about you? I would hope that they
would say that, you know, my life was of
benefit and service to humanity. That's
I think what I'm trying to do. So that's
maybe would be the best thing.
>> Thank you so much for your time.
>> Thank you. Really appreciate it.
>> Really fun.
>> Thanks.
>> Awesome.
>> If you want to play Jenga anytime.
>> Exactly. You seem pretty good version of
Jenga. You did that very well. So yeah,
this is actually awesome. I can't
believe how many projects we've done.
Silly crazy. When I saw the bricks, so
they all got our Yeah, they have all got
our projects on them. Did you memorize
where everything was? Okay. Of course.
>> So, the uh the game is you pull it out
and we were playing this. It It's unfair
to play with you, but it would be you
have to say what that project was and
you don't get the point if you get it
wrong.
>> Oh my god.
>> So, for example, it would be this is
material science.
>> Yeah. It's a little bit unfair on you. I
mean, I would hope I would win this
game, but um
>> although you're probably way better at
Jenga than me. Yeah. Let's see. Let's do
this one.
>> There you go.
>> Okay. Alpha code.
>> Cleo Jenga. Yeah, that one that one's
clearer, right? Code code forces.
>> Yeah.
>> Sense. This is uh genetics, but the 2%
that codes for proteins.
>> Yes, we have to do this now.
>> I've got time. I can push back my name.
>> Great.
>> What? Wait, I have I have one more
question.
>> You know Alpha?
>> Alpha Evolve is coding.
>> Yeah, we can be used for coding.
>> Programming. It's
>> it's it's combining genetic algorithms
with um with Gemini. So this is this is
our this is one attempt at doing like
Alph Go stuff beyond what is known.
>> So I wouldn't get the point for that
one.
>> No. Half a point. Half a point.
>> Okay. One more question for you then
while I have I'm just going to keep
going while I have you cuz why not?
>> Still we're still rolling.
>> Uh obviously um
>> Okay. What did I not ask you that you
think is important for people to know?
>> Um what did I not ask me? I think we
covered a lot actually. Um
>> Gencast this is weather prediction.
>> Yes. Oh yeah, we didn't cover that.
Navia Stokes. completely forgot about
solving solving that whole bunch of
things.
>> I completely forgot about that thing I
did solving.
>> So that was one interesting thing is
simulations. We didn't talk much about
that or genie which is um the the role
of simulations to um DQN of course
started it all off the Atari stuff um
simulations to help you uh understand
some area of science that um or even
social science like economics that you
can't are very hard to run either
expensive to run experiments or you
can't run controlled experiments in. So
I've always loved simulation. Oh yeah,
ISO. There you go.
>> Um,
>> we're both very competitive, I think, so
this is going to this is going to be
quite serious actually. Are you in
Jenko? Are you is the rules if you touch
it, you have to move it, do you or not?
>> We are playing a loose the looser the
easier version.
>> Also, because we uh we were doing a
creative thing where you're allowed to
like push them together. You can use two
hands also.
>> Okay. You're not allowed to normally do
that, right? Right. Okay. I'll just
going to take this one. I'm going to
cheat with alpha code.
One of the um questions I think people
will have for you is if they're watching
this and they, you know, are very
optimistic, Gemini, everybody.
>> Yes.
>> They're very optimistic about the
futures that you've described. They're
they have all of your same concerns.
They generally have gotten to the end of
this conversation and they're thinking,
>> I believe in this future and I want to
be part of it. How would you code mener
I think that finds bugs in code.
>> Yes. Very good.
>> How would you advise them to participate
if this is all about helping people
participate in the future?
>> I would um when I do sort of talks at at
universities and schools um I would say
they you've got to just go with the flow
of the direction. I would immerse myself
in every tool available and just become
almost like superpowered.
>> Fantastic. um superpowered with uh those
tools and those um uh uh uh those
capabilities cuz I think my impression
is even at the frontier labs we are um
there's so much work has to go into just
making the next versions of these
frontier models and then all the
adjacent models. So for us like VIO and
Nana Banana and Gemini um that we even
we can only explore a fraction of what
the the applied things you could do with
it the applications you could you could
make with it. So and I think that gap's
getting bigger and bigger in terms of
like the overhang of the capabilities
all the cool stuff on the latest models
and that that time the the release
schedules are getting faster and faster
on that. So I think the opportunity
space is getting huge if for people who
are really expert and um at using those
tools and then apply it to some new
domain. So um I think a a kid these days
could probably start a multi-billion
dollar business in some ways using these
tools in some new way that no one had
thought about. Um and I think things
like um Open Claw is a good example of
that.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Maybe we should call it a draw
because I think uh I think I don't think
I don't think either of us could bear to
lose that. Right. So,
>> it's your move. It's your move. Is it my
move? Yeah, it's your move. We can end
on your move.
>> I'll try my my end of my move. Go on
then.
>> You're going to make me
>> I knew it was going to get me another
move.
>> In 2016, you had a sticky note on your
board that said, "Solve protein
folding." Smiley face.
>> Yeah.
>> What is
>> What is on the board now in your
proverbial sticky?
>> Oh my gosh. Uh to I've got a pile of
about a hundred sticky notes on my desk.
So
>> what's what's on it?
>> Alpha chip. This is
>> what's on it. What's in it? I I can't
actually remember. It will be a list of
um about 30 things that need to be done
by like this evening. So I better
probably get to them. But look, great.
Should we do you want you want to
actually
>> I'm going to keep going until you stop.
So you can stop.
>> Yeah, we're about to What time is it?
Okay, I'll I'll do one more move. But
now we're now we're kind of cheating.
We're we're using our the pieces that
already
>> Oh, you're going to you're going to try
>> I'm going to go ambitious in our last
>> Oh, come on. Come on. Come on. Come on.
If I get this one, I get another
question.
>> Yeah. Okay,
that seems fair.
>> God,
how is that going to balance? Surely
not. No.
>> Yes.
>> All right. Thank you so much.
>> That was awesome. Thanks.
>> That was a great great idea to have
that.